README.md, before:

# Feplet (Node.js) vs. Pattern Lab (PHP)

On a high level, this is a Node.js vs. PHP comparison. However, this sort of 
comparison never compares apples to apples. Going a bit lower, we can compare 
two applications that, when receiving identical inputs, will return nearly 
identical outputs. We can then concern ourselves with only the most basic of 
benchmarks: processing speed and memory consumption. But since we don't know 
how these applications work under the hood, we again, cannot do an even 
comparison of Node.js and PHP.

But what we _can_ try to determine, is when considering what tools to use for 
building a pattern library, processing large amounts of template data:

* Whether to stay within the Node.js runtime environment, and use an obscure 
software package for this purpose

\- OR -

* Whether to bring on an additional runtime environment, and all the overhead 
that will encur, primarily because the better known software package works in 
this environment.

### Background

<a href="https://github.com/electric-eloquence/feplet#readme" target="_blank">Feplet</a> 
is the Node.js template engine which powers 
<a href="http://fepper.io" target="_blank">Fepper</a>, which implements the 
Pattern Lab UI. The Pattern Lab UI cannot receive enough acolades and 
superlatives for its utility at the tasks of organizing reusable markup 
patterns, and making them accessible to developers and designers.

However, those wishing to stay in the Pattern Lab ecosystem (i.e. not opting for 
Fepper, or similar independent project) will find that the PHP version of 
Pattern Lab provides the best experience. A Node.js version of Pattern Lab 
exists, but its functionality is too limited for power usage. (More on that 
later, if you're interested.)

Given that frontend developers and coding designers are certain to work in 
JavaScript (and probably Node.js), it is reasonable to assume that they don't  
automatically want to bring on another runtime environment. They'd generally 
need a mandate or a drive of curiosity to venture beyond Node.js. We're only 
concerned with what could impart the mandate:

* The Node.js application isn't up to the task
* The Node.js application is too slow
* The Node.js application consumes too much memory 

### Versions

* Fepper (main project): 0.4.2
* Fepper-NPM: 0.25.5
* Feplet: 0.1.1
* Pattern Lab: 1.0.0
* Pattern Lab: 1.1.0
* Pattern Lab: 2.0.0
* Node.js: 8.9.4
* PHP: 5.6.33
* PHP: 7.2.2 

Fepper-NPM and Feplet are dependencies of Fepper. They are parts of the whole.

The three Pattern Lab versions are independent entities and will be tested 
separately as such.

PHP will also be tested separately for versions 5.6.33 and 7.2.2, for each 
version of Pattern Lab.

### System

* MacBook Pro (Retina, 15-inch, Mid 2015)
* Intel Core i7-4980HQ @ 2.80GHz
* 16 GB 1600 MHz DDR3
* macOS Sierra 10.12.6 Host OS
* VirtualBox 5.1.30 r118389
* Ubuntu 14.04.5 LTS Trusty Guest OS

### Tests

This Feplet/Fepper vs. Pattern Lab comparison really just tests their abilities 
at compiling and rendering templates — lots of them. At heart, this is really 
just a template engine benchmark test. Pattern Lab for PHP brilliantly extends 
Mustache functionality, and is the sole source of inspiration for Feplet. The 
already mentioned Pattern Lab UI doesn't consume much time or resources in these 
builds, and can basically be ignored in these tests.

### Benchmarks

Averages of ten runs:

#### 5 patterns per pattern type

* Feplet: 0.575 sec
* Handlebars: 1.272 sec

#### 6 patterns per pattern type

* Feplet: 1.541 sec
* Handlebars: 3.793 sec

#### 7 patterns per pattern type

* Feplet: 4.044 sec
* Handlebars: 10.734 sec

#### No conditional logic

* Feplet: 0.437 sec
* Handlebars: 0.579 sec

### Do It Yourself

```bash
npm install
node feplet/run-5.js
node handlebars/run-5.js
node feplet/run-6.js
node handlebars/run-6.js
node feplet/run-7.js
node handlebars/run-7.js
node feplet/run-no-cond.js
node handlebars/run-no-cond.js
```

Feplet and Fepper are independent of Pattern Lab, organizationally and socially. 
Feplet and Fepper implement the inventions of others, and hopefully add enough 
original functionality to be considered something more than just copies of the 
originals.

Commit message:

readme update, deleting extraneous patternlab-config.json files

README.md, after:

# Feplet (Node.js) vs. Pattern Lab (PHP)

On a high level, this is a Node.js vs. PHP comparison. However, this sort of 
comparison never compares apples to apples. Going a bit lower, we can compare 
two applications that, when receiving identical inputs, will return nearly 
identical outputs. We can then concern ourselves with only the most basic of 
benchmarks: processing speed and memory consumption. But since we don't know 
how these applications work under the hood, we again, cannot do an even 
comparison of Node.js and PHP.

But what we _can_ try to determine, is when considering what tools to use for 
building a pattern library, processing large amounts of template data:

* Whether to stay within the Node.js runtime environment, and use an obscure 
application for this purpose

\- OR -

* Whether to bring on an additional runtime environment, and all the overhead 
that will encur, primarily because the better known application works in this 
environment.

### Background

<a href="https://github.com/electric-eloquence/feplet" target="_blank">Feplet</a> 
is the Node.js template engine which powers 
<a href="http://fepper.io" target="_blank">Fepper</a>, which implements the 
Pattern Lab UI. The Pattern Lab UI cannot receive enough acolades and 
superlatives for its utility at the tasks of organizing reusable markup 
patterns, and making them accessible to developers and designers.

However, those wishing to stay in the Pattern Lab ecosystem (i.e. not opting for 
Fepper, or similar independent application) will find that the PHP version of 
Pattern Lab provides the best experience. A Node.js version of Pattern Lab 
exists, but its functionality is too limited for power usage. (More on that 
later, if you're interested.)

Given that frontend developers and coding designers are certain to work in 
JavaScript (and probably Node.js), it is reasonable to assume that they don't 
automatically want to bring on another runtime environment. They'd generally 
need a mandate or a drive of curiosity to expand beyond Node.js for a given 
project. We're only concerned with what could impart the mandate:

* The Node.js application isn't up to the task
* The Node.js application is too slow
* The Node.js application consumes too much memory 

### Versions

* <a href="https://github.com/electric-eloquence/fepper" target="_blank">Fepper (main project)</a>:
  0.4.2
* <a href="https://github.com/electric-eloquence/fepper-npm" target="_blank">Fepper-NPM</a>:
  0.25.5
* <a href="https://github.com/electric-eloquence/feplet" target="_blank">Feplet</a>:
  0.1.1
* Pattern Lab: 1.0.0
* Pattern Lab: 1.1.0
* Pattern Lab: 2.0.0
* Node.js: 8.9.4
* PHP: 5.6.33
* PHP: 7.2.2 

Fepper-NPM and Feplet are dependencies of Fepper. They are parts of the whole.

The three Pattern Lab versions are independent entities and will be tested 
separately as such.

PHP will also be tested separately for versions 5.6.33 and 7.2.2, for each 
version of Pattern Lab.

### System

* MacBook Pro (Retina, 15-inch, Mid 2015)
* Intel Core i7-4980HQ @ 2.80GHz
* 16 GB 1600 MHz DDR3
* macOS Sierra 10.12.6 Host OS
* VirtualBox 5.1.30 r118389
* Ubuntu 14.04.5 LTS Trusty Guest OS

### Tests

This Feplet/Fepper vs. Pattern Lab comparison really just tests their abilities 
at compiling and rendering templates — lots of them. At heart, this is really 
just a template engine benchmark test. Pattern Lab for PHP brilliantly extends 
Mustache functionality, and is the sole source of inspiration for Feplet. 

The templates to be compiled and rendered are in the `source` directory under 
each respective application. The directories are identical. They each contain 
271 template files, and 77 JSON data files.

Building the Pattern Lab UI doesn't consume much time or resources in these 
tests, and can basically be ignored.

### Benchmarks

Averages of ten runs:

#### 5 patterns per pattern type

* Feplet: 0.575 sec
* Handlebars: 1.272 sec

#### 6 patterns per pattern type

* Feplet: 1.541 sec
* Handlebars: 3.793 sec

#### 7 patterns per pattern type

* Feplet: 4.044 sec
* Handlebars: 10.734 sec

#### No conditional logic

* Feplet: 0.437 sec
* Handlebars: 0.579 sec

### Do It Yourself

```bash
npm install
node feplet/run-5.js
node handlebars/run-5.js
node feplet/run-6.js
node handlebars/run-6.js
node feplet/run-7.js
node handlebars/run-7.js
node feplet/run-no-cond.js
node handlebars/run-no-cond.js
```

### Footnotes

Feplet and Fepper are independent of Pattern Lab, organizationally and socially. 
Feplet and Fepper implement the inventions of others, and hopefully add enough 
original functionality to be considered something more than just copies of the 
originals.
